What I would really like is to make
that button do a thing, right?
Maybe it's not even the worst thing in
the world that if there is no file loaded,
immediately start with a file open dialog,
but maybe I just wanna write here, right?
Maybe I wanna choose when I wanna
open a file or not open a file.
So now we need to figure out
communication in the other direction.
How do we send messages from the renderer
process back to the main process?
So let's get the direction going
the other way in this case.
So we wanna start by getting
rid of the automatic,
no matter what,
all-the-time code that we had in place.
Yeah right now we have to do the work
ourself we've got to do something to get
that file open dialog to work, and
that's our mission at this moment.
So we have one kinda new concept which
is as I said before the stuff in the DOM
has no is effectively not dissimilar
to writing browser to a server side code.
It does not know about electron and
just kinda goes to the question we have
in the very beginning of like, hey,
can I also put together
a regular web UI on this one.
Maybe not with these buttons but for
different purposes you can
because the renderer code
knows very little about what
is happening in electron.
So we have to expose the ability to talk
to the main process in a very allow listed
kind of way of doing that and say,
okay, here, here's a bridge, right?
Back to the main context with only a few
things that you should be able to do.
That way, if I do get a malicious script,
I don't worry about any of these things.
And I keep using the term bridge and
I keep picking a file called
context bridge.md as if I am trying
to allude what the library is.
As if I put the answer on the screen the
entire time without directly referencing
it, which is the context bridge
is a effectively a way to have
a kind of isolated closure scope.
And there's a bunch of ways to do this,
you are doing a really specific out,
you can have very different contexts,
even this window only gets
access to this thing.
The other thing we don't
have that level of need, so
we're gonna use what's
called the main world.
You can have any number of worlds
with different things exposed.
We're gonna put everything in the single
domain world using the context bridge We
will expose the ability to send a message,
and only a message at this moment
to the main process saying trigger
that show open dialog please, right?
So in this case we go back
to that preload script and
we can pull in context bridge.
All right, and so
we've got a context bridge and
we're gonna worry about
the exposeInMainWorld.
There are other,
world is a really cool term, but
it doesn't mean anything particularly.
It's just what kinda isolated
context do you want.
It's using the context isolation
that is present in Chrome, and
then we just give it some kind of key,
right?
And the same way we had a key very much
for the IPC renderer is some kind of key.
Depending what you're doing,
you might call some different
you could call it electron.
I don't know, call it whatever you want.
I'm gonna call this one API,
because it's a way that I'm gonna trigger
stuff back to the main ones and
I couldn't come up with a better name.
And then after that,
it takes an object, right?
And this object is basically things that
you want to expose into
the renderer process.
And so for our case, is like we can
say something along the lines of,
let's just say this is
the show open dialog, right?
And it doesn't have to be the same
as the method in the main process.
That is just simply, it makes sense
that it's a method in the main process,
but it doesn't have to be, but
I'm not coming up with a new name.
So we have a few options in here,
in this case we can send a message.
This case is show open dialog,
which seems like a good name for
a message to send the main process,
if I would to show an open dialog.
But again, these strings are arbitrary,
they don't mean anything.
It's just,
if you send a message on this channel,
you need to receive it
on the same channel.
So we have send, and
there's a few different IPC methods
that we will look at in a second.
And I'll kinda talk about
some of the differences.
There are some that seem more
compelling and seem better,
I'm gonna tell you right now,
the simplest is probably the best.
Send is to basically send a message
you saw it on the other direction,
it has a friend called invoke,
which we'll look at separately.
You will see me over our time together,
I will use invoke and
then I will switch it back to send
mostly to demonstrate how invoke works.
And then I will go back
to preferring send,
send sends a message it's kind of send and
forget, right?
Very much like most things when
we're dealing with events.
Invoke will send a message that on the
main process you can set of listening for,
right?
Instead of on you can handle,
and then have a return value that then
goes back to the renderer process, right?
That said,
stuff like opening a file seems like yes,
I want to be able to have that kinda
very synchronous feeling, its promises.
But synchronous feeling API,
the problem is for
opening a file there ends up being
nine ways that you do it, right?
It ends up being a file menu,
ends up being dragging something on, and
ends up being triggering
it from a button and
coupling these things will almost
always make you somewhat sad.
But it is also a simpler process than
having two different channels and
setting up listeners.
It's doing it under the hood.
You could write it
yourself if you wanted to.
So in this case,
let's send the show open dialog, right?
And you notice I didn't call it open file,
because again, if I drag a file on,
I don't need to show the show
open dialog, right?
Some of this is just the thinking
through of the application.
So we wanna show an open dialog,
and we're just gonna say that, hey,
I would like to make this
a thing that happens.
There is one small thing that we
need to do for TypeScript's sake,
which is, like I explained to TypeScript
that this is now a thing that exists.
And there's a bunch of places I can do it,
and
I will try different
options as we go along.
But effectively, when you expose
something in the main world,
that API becomes a property
on the window object, right?
And then whatever objects you put in here,
and these can be async functions,
they should stay to relatively
simple strings and stuff like that.
You can't send complicated
objects the same way,
you can do it over the network.
There are other ways to do that.
But generally speaking,
it puts a given key on the window object
that then becomes available to you and
you can use in your browser.
At this moment, this is the first time
that TypeScript's gonna get angry at us.
Because it's you call window.API,
TypeScript should be like,
that's not a thing, right?
And so I'm just gonna do it in here.
You can literally probably do
it in that file if you want to.
And so here we've got, we're just
gonna extend the window objects.
Also I have this API key on here and
it has show open dialog.
This will keep you from making boo-boos,
but it is an extra hassle and
I will show you probably
in the second example,
how to dynamically program your types.
But let's focus for now.
So cool, we're putting that in
the main world in the context bridge
on the window object and now we should
have this ability here as well.
Great, and so what I can do at this point
is I'm gonna go into that renderer for
the first time.
And so that's just listening for the text
area and then showing on the other side,
that's purely client-side code.
What I also wanna do is do this elements,
elements, yeah, sure.
The open file button, and
then was a addEventListener for a click.
And when that happens, we'll call this
window API Show Open dialog, right?
So that will then that has access to
the context of the preload script,
which can then send
messages to the main and
then we should have the full
loop at this point.
So let's try out.
So close, and theoretically, this is
now code that should regenerate, so
let's say Open File button.
I know what the issue is.
Does anyone know what the issue is?
I didn't purposely make this mistake,
but I talked about it.
Let's review what I did.
Window.api show open dialog, right?
Which goes into the preload to send this
show open dialog to the main process.
There's nothing listening for in the main
process, we didn't write that code, right?
So let's talk about that real quick and
let's get that in place and
that will then complete the loop
which is this IPC renderer or
IC main at this point, show open dialog.
That is gonna be
the listener in this case.
And as you can see what we wanna do is
on the event we have this event sender,
there's also an event reply if you just
wanted to set something right back.
If you wanted to do something and
immediately send it back,
Event Reply will do the trick.
But we've got this flow of attaching it to
the dialog and stuff along those lines.
So we've got browsing window has a class
method called from web contents,
which is what this sender is, oops.
Right, that is a web contents.
So we'll get the browser window, if for
some reason we got this thing with no
event, which I don't think that's mostly
to keep TypeScript from yelling at me.
Then we will pass it in, and
now we should have the full flow.
We send a message, no one listened for it.
Open file, Pick the context bridge.
We now have that full integration.